README.md, before:

# Zenith

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9+-green.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pyzenith.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/pyzenith/)
[![Stability](https://img.shields.io/badge/Stability-84%25-brightgreen.svg)](#)
[![CUDA](https://img.shields.io/badge/CUDA-12.x-76B900.svg)](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit)
[![Tensor Cores](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tensor%20Cores-WMMA-orange.svg)](#native-cuda-kernels)
[![CI](https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tests-942+-success.svg)](#)

**Cross-Platform ML Optimization Framework**

Zenith is a hobby project that aims to be a helpful companion framework for PyTorch, JAX, and TensorFlow. It provides optimization utilities like native CUDA kernels, operator fusion, and quantization to help make your inference stack a bit faster.

## Project History

Zenith was conceived and architecturally designed on **December 11, 2024**, with the creation of its comprehensive blueprint document (CetakBiru.md) that outlines a 36-month development roadmap across 6 implementation phases. Active development began on **January 12, 2025**, and after 11 months of internal development, research, and rigorous testing, Zenith was publicly released on GitHub on **December 16, 2025**.

This project represents nearly a year of hobby development, learning CUDA programming, and experimenting with ML optimization techniques. It's still a work in progress!

---

## Early Benchmark Results

These are some early experiments on NVIDIA Tesla T4 (Google Colab). Results may vary:

| Benchmark | Workload | Observation |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| GPU Memory Pool | MatMul 1024x1024 | ~50x faster (zero-copy vs copy) |
| BERT Inference | 12-layer encoder | ~1.09x faster |
| Training Loop | 6-layer Transformer | ~1.02x faster |
| Memory Efficiency | Zero-copy allocation | 93.5% cache hit rate |
| INT8 Quantization | Model compression | 4x memory reduction |

*These benchmarks are preliminary. See [BENCHMARK_REPORT.md](./BENCHMARK_REPORT.md) for details.*

---

## Features

### Core Capabilities
- Unified API for PyTorch, TensorFlow, JAX, and ONNX models
- Automatic graph optimizations (operator fusion, constant folding, dead code elimination)
- Multi-backend support (CPU with SIMD, CUDA with cuDNN/cuBLAS)
- Mixed precision inference (FP16, BF16, INT8)
- Zero-copy GPU memory pooling for minimal allocation overhead

### Optimization Passes
- Conv-BatchNorm-ReLU fusion
- Linear-GELU fusion (BERT-optimized)
- LayerNorm-Add fusion
- Constant folding and dead code elimination
- INT8 quantization with calibration

### Hardware Support
- CPU: AVX2/FMA SIMD optimizations
- NVIDIA GPU: CUDA 12.x with cuDNN 8.x and cuBLAS
- AMD GPU: ROCm support (experimental - untesting)
- Intel: OneAPI support (experimental - untesting)

> **Note regarding AMD & Intel GPUs:**  
> Support for ROCm (AMD) and OneAPI (Intel) is currently in an **experimental** state. While the backend code exists, it has not been verified on physical hardware. We recommend using NVIDIA GPUs for production workloads. Community contributions for hardware verification are welcome!

### Native CUDA Kernels

Zenith includes some hand-written CUDA kernels (still experimental):

| Kernel | Description | Tensor Core |
|--------|-------------|-------------|
| `relu` | ReLU activation | - |
| `gelu` | GELU activation (BERT) | - |
| `layernorm` | Layer Normalization | - |
| `matmul` | Matrix Multiplication (FP32) | - |
| `wmma_matmul` | Matrix Multiplication (FP16) | **WMMA** |
| `flash_attention` | Flash Attention v2 | - |

```python
# Build native kernels (requires CUDA)
python zenith/build_cuda.py

# Use in code
import zenith_cuda
C = zenith_cuda.wmma_matmul(A.half(), B.half())  # Tensor Core accelerated
```

---

## Installation

### Quick Install

```bash
pip install pyzenith
```

### Installation Options

Choose the right installation based on your needs:

| Command | Use Case | What's Included |
|---------|----------|-----------------|
| `pip install pyzenith` | Quick start, testing | Core only (numpy) |
| `pip install pyzenith[pytorch]` | PyTorch users | + PyTorch 2.0+ |
| `pip install pyzenith[onnx]` | Model deployment, inference | + ONNX + ONNX Runtime |
| `pip install pyzenith[tensorflow]` | TensorFlow users | + TensorFlow + tf2onnx |
| `pip install pyzenith[jax]` | JAX/Flax users | + JAX + JAXlib |
| `pip install pyzenith[all]` | Full functionality | All frameworks |
| `pip install pyzenith[dev]` | Contributors | + pytest, black, mypy, ruff |

### Recommended Installation

```bash
# For most ML users (PyTorch + ONNX export)
pip install pyzenith[pytorch,onnx]

# For full framework support
pip install pyzenith[all]

# For development/contribution
pip install pyzenith[dev]
```

### Development Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH.git
cd ZENITH
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

### CUDA Build (for Maximum GPU Performance)

For full CUDA kernel acceleration (50x speedup):

```bash
# On Google Colab or Linux with CUDA
git clone https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH.git
cd ZENITH
bash build_cuda.sh

# Verify installation
python -c "from zenith._zenith_core import backends; print(backends.list_available())"
# Output: ['cpu', 'cuda']
```

> **Note:** Without CUDA build, Zenith still provides full performance via PyTorch/TensorFlow CUDA backends.

---

## Quick Start

### Basic Usage

```python
import zenith
from zenith.core import GraphIR, DataType, Shape, TensorDescriptor

# Create a computation graph
graph = GraphIR(name="my_model")
graph.add_input(TensorDescriptor("x", Shape([1, 3, 224, 224]), DataType.Float32))

# Apply optimizations
from zenith.optimization import PassManager
pm = PassManager()
pm.add("constant_folding")
pm.add("dead_code_elimination")
pm.add("operator_fusion")
optimized = pm.run(graph)
```

### CUDA Operations

```python
import numpy as np
from zenith._zenith_core import cuda

# Check CUDA availability
print(f"CUDA available: {cuda.is_available()}")

# Matrix multiplication (50x faster than PyTorch)
A = np.random.randn(1024, 1024).astype(np.float32)
B = np.random.randn(1024, 1024).astype(np.float32)
C = cuda.matmul(A, B)

# GPU operations
cuda.gelu(input_tensor)
cuda.layernorm(input_tensor, gamma, beta, eps=1e-5)
cuda.softmax(input_tensor)
```

### JAX Integration

```python
import jax
import jax.numpy as jnp
from zenith.jax.primitives import fused_attention, fused_gelu

# Fused attention - JIT-compatible and differentiable
batch, heads, seq, dim = 2, 8, 512, 64
q = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(0), (batch, heads, seq, dim))
k = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(1), (batch, heads, seq, dim))
v = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(2), (batch, heads, seq, dim))

output = fused_attention(q, k, v)

# Works with jax.grad
grads = jax.grad(lambda q, k, v: jnp.sum(fused_attention(q, k, v)))(q, k, v)
```

See [JAX Integration Guide](./docs/jax_integration.md) for more examples.

### torch.compile Backend (New in v0.3.0)

Zenith now integrates with PyTorch 2.0+ `torch.compile` for automatic optimization:

```python
import torch
import zenith  # Auto-registers 'zenith' backend

model = YourModel().cuda()

# Use Zenith as torch.compile backend
optimized_model = torch.compile(model, backend="zenith")

# Run as normal - Zenith handles optimization
output = optimized_model(input_tensor)
```

**Benchmark Results (TinyLlama 1.1B fine-tuning):**
- Training speedup: **+7.92%**
- No memory overhead
- Numerical accuracy preserved

---

## Architecture

```
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    Python User Interface                    |
|                  (zenith.api, zenith.core)                  |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|              Framework-Specific Adapters Layer              |
|          (PyTorch, TensorFlow, JAX -> ONNX -> IR)           |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|       Core Optimization & Compilation Engine (C++)          |
|  - Graph IR with type-safe operations                       |
|  - PassManager with optimization passes                     |
|  - Kernel Registry and Dispatcher                           |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|           Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)                  |
|     CPU (AVX2/FMA) | CUDA (cuDNN/cuBLAS) | ROCm | OneAPI    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
```

---

## Benchmarks

### BERT-Base Inference (12 layers, batch=1, seq=128)

| Mode | Latency | vs PyTorch |
|------|---------|------------|
| Pure PyTorch | 10.60 ms | baseline |
| Zenith + PyTorch | 9.74 ms | 1.09x faster |

### ResNet-50 Throughput

| Batch Size | Throughput |
|------------|------------|
| 1 | 150 img/sec |
| 64 | 377 img/sec |
| 512 | 359 img/sec |

### GPU Memory Pool

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| Cache Hit Rate | 93.5% |
| Speedup vs naive | 330x |

---

## Testing

```bash
# Run all Python tests
pytest tests/python/ -v

# Run with coverage
pytest tests/python/ --cov=zenith --cov-report=term-missing

# Run C++ unit tests (after CUDA build)
./build/tests/test_core

# Security scan
bandit -r zenith/ -ll
```

### Test Status

- Python Tests: 198+ passed
- C++ Tests: 34/34 passed
- Code Coverage: 66%+
- Security Issues: 0 HIGH severity

---

## Documentation

- [Benchmark Report](./BENCHMARK_REPORT.md) - Comprehensive performance benchmarks
- [API Reference](./docs/API.md) - Python API documentation
- [Architecture](./docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design documentation

---

## Project Status

Zenith is currently in active development with the following milestones completed:

- Phase 1: Core Graph IR and C++ foundation
- Phase 2: CUDA backend with cuDNN/cuBLAS integration
- Phase 3: Optimization passes and quantization
- Phase 4: Quality assurance and documentation

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please ensure all tests pass before submitting pull requests.

```bash
# Setup development environment
pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Run tests before committing
pytest tests/python/ -v
```

---

## Author

**Wahyu Ardiansyah** - Lead Architect and Developer

## License

Apache License 2.0 - See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

Copyright 2025 Wahyu Ardiansyah. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Make README intro more humble
Before: 'Cross-Platform ML Optimization Framework'
After: 'A hobby project exploring ML optimization'

Added 'use at your own risk' disclaimer to be honest about the experimental nature.

README.md, after:

# Zenith

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.9+-green.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pyzenith.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/pyzenith/)
[![Stability](https://img.shields.io/badge/Stability-84%25-brightgreen.svg)](#)
[![CUDA](https://img.shields.io/badge/CUDA-12.x-76B900.svg)](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit)
[![Tensor Cores](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tensor%20Cores-WMMA-orange.svg)](#native-cuda-kernels)
[![CI](https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/Tests-942+-success.svg)](#)

**A hobby project exploring ML optimization**

Zenith is an experimental project where I'm learning and exploring optimization techniques for machine learning. It tries to provide some useful utilities like custom CUDA kernels and operator fusion for PyTorch, JAX, and TensorFlow. This is a learning project - use at your own risk!

## Project History

Zenith was conceived and architecturally designed on **December 11, 2024**, with the creation of its comprehensive blueprint document (CetakBiru.md) that outlines a 36-month development roadmap across 6 implementation phases. Active development began on **January 12, 2025**, and after 11 months of internal development, research, and rigorous testing, Zenith was publicly released on GitHub on **December 16, 2025**.

This project represents nearly a year of hobby development, learning CUDA programming, and experimenting with ML optimization techniques. It's still a work in progress!

---

## Early Benchmark Results

These are some early experiments on NVIDIA Tesla T4 (Google Colab). Results may vary:

| Benchmark | Workload | Observation |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| GPU Memory Pool | MatMul 1024x1024 | ~50x faster (zero-copy vs copy) |
| BERT Inference | 12-layer encoder | ~1.09x faster |
| Training Loop | 6-layer Transformer | ~1.02x faster |
| Memory Efficiency | Zero-copy allocation | 93.5% cache hit rate |
| INT8 Quantization | Model compression | 4x memory reduction |

*These benchmarks are preliminary. See [BENCHMARK_REPORT.md](./BENCHMARK_REPORT.md) for details.*

---

## Features

### Core Capabilities
- Unified API for PyTorch, TensorFlow, JAX, and ONNX models
- Automatic graph optimizations (operator fusion, constant folding, dead code elimination)
- Multi-backend support (CPU with SIMD, CUDA with cuDNN/cuBLAS)
- Mixed precision inference (FP16, BF16, INT8)
- Zero-copy GPU memory pooling for minimal allocation overhead

### Optimization Passes
- Conv-BatchNorm-ReLU fusion
- Linear-GELU fusion (BERT-optimized)
- LayerNorm-Add fusion
- Constant folding and dead code elimination
- INT8 quantization with calibration

### Hardware Support
- CPU: AVX2/FMA SIMD optimizations
- NVIDIA GPU: CUDA 12.x with cuDNN 8.x and cuBLAS
- AMD GPU: ROCm support (experimental - untesting)
- Intel: OneAPI support (experimental - untesting)

> **Note regarding AMD & Intel GPUs:**  
> Support for ROCm (AMD) and OneAPI (Intel) is currently in an **experimental** state. While the backend code exists, it has not been verified on physical hardware. We recommend using NVIDIA GPUs for production workloads. Community contributions for hardware verification are welcome!

### Native CUDA Kernels

Zenith includes some hand-written CUDA kernels (still experimental):

| Kernel | Description | Tensor Core |
|--------|-------------|-------------|
| `relu` | ReLU activation | - |
| `gelu` | GELU activation (BERT) | - |
| `layernorm` | Layer Normalization | - |
| `matmul` | Matrix Multiplication (FP32) | - |
| `wmma_matmul` | Matrix Multiplication (FP16) | **WMMA** |
| `flash_attention` | Flash Attention v2 | - |

```python
# Build native kernels (requires CUDA)
python zenith/build_cuda.py

# Use in code
import zenith_cuda
C = zenith_cuda.wmma_matmul(A.half(), B.half())  # Tensor Core accelerated
```

---

## Installation

### Quick Install

```bash
pip install pyzenith
```

### Installation Options

Choose the right installation based on your needs:

| Command | Use Case | What's Included |
|---------|----------|-----------------|
| `pip install pyzenith` | Quick start, testing | Core only (numpy) |
| `pip install pyzenith[pytorch]` | PyTorch users | + PyTorch 2.0+ |
| `pip install pyzenith[onnx]` | Model deployment, inference | + ONNX + ONNX Runtime |
| `pip install pyzenith[tensorflow]` | TensorFlow users | + TensorFlow + tf2onnx |
| `pip install pyzenith[jax]` | JAX/Flax users | + JAX + JAXlib |
| `pip install pyzenith[all]` | Full functionality | All frameworks |
| `pip install pyzenith[dev]` | Contributors | + pytest, black, mypy, ruff |

### Recommended Installation

```bash
# For most ML users (PyTorch + ONNX export)
pip install pyzenith[pytorch,onnx]

# For full framework support
pip install pyzenith[all]

# For development/contribution
pip install pyzenith[dev]
```

### Development Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH.git
cd ZENITH
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

### CUDA Build (for Maximum GPU Performance)

For full CUDA kernel acceleration (50x speedup):

```bash
# On Google Colab or Linux with CUDA
git clone https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH.git
cd ZENITH
bash build_cuda.sh

# Verify installation
python -c "from zenith._zenith_core import backends; print(backends.list_available())"
# Output: ['cpu', 'cuda']
```

> **Note:** Without CUDA build, Zenith still provides full performance via PyTorch/TensorFlow CUDA backends.

---

## Quick Start

### Basic Usage

```python
import zenith
from zenith.core import GraphIR, DataType, Shape, TensorDescriptor

# Create a computation graph
graph = GraphIR(name="my_model")
graph.add_input(TensorDescriptor("x", Shape([1, 3, 224, 224]), DataType.Float32))

# Apply optimizations
from zenith.optimization import PassManager
pm = PassManager()
pm.add("constant_folding")
pm.add("dead_code_elimination")
pm.add("operator_fusion")
optimized = pm.run(graph)
```

### CUDA Operations

```python
import numpy as np
from zenith._zenith_core import cuda

# Check CUDA availability
print(f"CUDA available: {cuda.is_available()}")

# Matrix multiplication (50x faster than PyTorch)
A = np.random.randn(1024, 1024).astype(np.float32)
B = np.random.randn(1024, 1024).astype(np.float32)
C = cuda.matmul(A, B)

# GPU operations
cuda.gelu(input_tensor)
cuda.layernorm(input_tensor, gamma, beta, eps=1e-5)
cuda.softmax(input_tensor)
```

### JAX Integration

```python
import jax
import jax.numpy as jnp
from zenith.jax.primitives import fused_attention, fused_gelu

# Fused attention - JIT-compatible and differentiable
batch, heads, seq, dim = 2, 8, 512, 64
q = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(0), (batch, heads, seq, dim))
k = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(1), (batch, heads, seq, dim))
v = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(2), (batch, heads, seq, dim))

output = fused_attention(q, k, v)

# Works with jax.grad
grads = jax.grad(lambda q, k, v: jnp.sum(fused_attention(q, k, v)))(q, k, v)
```

See [JAX Integration Guide](./docs/jax_integration.md) for more examples.

### torch.compile Backend (New in v0.3.0)

Zenith now integrates with PyTorch 2.0+ `torch.compile` for automatic optimization:

```python
import torch
import zenith  # Auto-registers 'zenith' backend

model = YourModel().cuda()

# Use Zenith as torch.compile backend
optimized_model = torch.compile(model, backend="zenith")

# Run as normal - Zenith handles optimization
output = optimized_model(input_tensor)
```

**Benchmark Results (TinyLlama 1.1B fine-tuning):**
- Training speedup: **+7.92%**
- No memory overhead
- Numerical accuracy preserved

---

## Architecture

```
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    Python User Interface                    |
|                  (zenith.api, zenith.core)                  |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|              Framework-Specific Adapters Layer              |
|          (PyTorch, TensorFlow, JAX -> ONNX -> IR)           |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|       Core Optimization & Compilation Engine (C++)          |
|  - Graph IR with type-safe operations                       |
|  - PassManager with optimization passes                     |
|  - Kernel Registry and Dispatcher                           |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|           Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)                  |
|     CPU (AVX2/FMA) | CUDA (cuDNN/cuBLAS) | ROCm | OneAPI    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
```

---

## Benchmarks

### BERT-Base Inference (12 layers, batch=1, seq=128)

| Mode | Latency | vs PyTorch |
|------|---------|------------|
| Pure PyTorch | 10.60 ms | baseline |
| Zenith + PyTorch | 9.74 ms | 1.09x faster |

### ResNet-50 Throughput

| Batch Size | Throughput |
|------------|------------|
| 1 | 150 img/sec |
| 64 | 377 img/sec |
| 512 | 359 img/sec |

### GPU Memory Pool

| Metric | Value |
|--------|-------|
| Cache Hit Rate | 93.5% |
| Speedup vs naive | 330x |

---

## Testing

```bash
# Run all Python tests
pytest tests/python/ -v

# Run with coverage
pytest tests/python/ --cov=zenith --cov-report=term-missing

# Run C++ unit tests (after CUDA build)
./build/tests/test_core

# Security scan
bandit -r zenith/ -ll
```

### Test Status

- Python Tests: 198+ passed
- C++ Tests: 34/34 passed
- Code Coverage: 66%+
- Security Issues: 0 HIGH severity

---

## Documentation

- [Benchmark Report](./BENCHMARK_REPORT.md) - Comprehensive performance benchmarks
- [API Reference](./docs/API.md) - Python API documentation
- [Architecture](./docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design documentation

---

## Project Status

Zenith is currently in active development with the following milestones completed:

- Phase 1: Core Graph IR and C++ foundation
- Phase 2: CUDA backend with cuDNN/cuBLAS integration
- Phase 3: Optimization passes and quantization
- Phase 4: Quality assurance and documentation

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please ensure all tests pass before submitting pull requests.

```bash
# Setup development environment
pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Run tests before committing
pytest tests/python/ -v
```

---

## Author

**Wahyu Ardiansyah** - Lead Architect and Developer

## License

Apache License 2.0 - See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

Copyright 2025 Wahyu Ardiansyah. All rights reserved.
