docs/tutorials/jax_mixed_precision.md, before:

# JAX Mixed Precision Tutorial

This tutorial shows how to use Zenith's mixed precision support with JAX for faster training.

## Overview

Mixed precision uses FP16/BF16 for computation while keeping FP32 for critical operations, reducing memory and increasing throughput.

## Basic Usage

```python
import jax
import jax.numpy as jnp
from zenith.jax import mixed_precision_policy, cast_to_half

# Set global precision policy
mixed_precision_policy("mixed_float16")

# Define model with automatic casting
def model(params, x):
    # Computation happens in FP16
    h = cast_to_half(x) @ cast_to_half(params['w1'])
    h = jax.nn.gelu(h)
    h = h @ cast_to_half(params['w2'])
    # Output stays in FP16
    return h

# Use with jax.jit
@jax.jit
def forward(params, x):
    return model(params, x)
```

## Precision Policies

| Policy | Compute | Accumulate | Gradients |
|--------|---------|------------|-----------|
| `float32` | FP32 | FP32 | FP32 |
| `mixed_float16` | FP16 | FP32 | FP16 |
| `mixed_bfloat16` | BF16 | FP32 | BF16 |

## Using with Flax

```python
import flax.linen as nn
from zenith.jax import apply_mixed_precision

class TransformerBlock(nn.Module):
    features: int
    
    @nn.compact
    def __call__(self, x):
        # Apply mixed precision to attention
        attn = nn.MultiHeadDotProductAttention(num_heads=8)
        x = apply_mixed_precision(attn, dtype=jnp.float16)(x)
        return x
```

## Performance Tips

1. Use BF16 on TPUs, FP16 on GPUs
2. Keep loss computation in FP32 for stability
3. Use gradient scaling for FP16 training

## Speedup Results

| Hardware | FP32 | Mixed Precision | Speedup |
|----------|------|-----------------|---------|
| T4 GPU   | 100% | 180%            | 1.8x    |
| A100 GPU | 100% | 250%            | 2.5x    |
| TPU v4   | 100% | 200%            | 2.0x    |

Commit message:

Fix overclaiming in jax_mixed_precision.md
Remove false speedup claims for A100 and TPU v4 (untested hardware).
Replace with honest disclaimer about expected benefits varying by hardware.
TPU support in Zenith is experimental and not verified.

docs/tutorials/jax_mixed_precision.md, after:

# JAX Mixed Precision Tutorial

This tutorial shows how to use Zenith's mixed precision support with JAX for faster training.

## Overview

Mixed precision uses FP16/BF16 for computation while keeping FP32 for critical operations, reducing memory and increasing throughput.

## Basic Usage

```python
import jax
import jax.numpy as jnp
from zenith.jax import mixed_precision_policy, cast_to_half

# Set global precision policy
mixed_precision_policy("mixed_float16")

# Define model with automatic casting
def model(params, x):
    # Computation happens in FP16
    h = cast_to_half(x) @ cast_to_half(params['w1'])
    h = jax.nn.gelu(h)
    h = h @ cast_to_half(params['w2'])
    # Output stays in FP16
    return h

# Use with jax.jit
@jax.jit
def forward(params, x):
    return model(params, x)
```

## Precision Policies

| Policy | Compute | Accumulate | Gradients |
|--------|---------|------------|-----------|
| `float32` | FP32 | FP32 | FP32 |
| `mixed_float16` | FP16 | FP32 | FP16 |
| `mixed_bfloat16` | BF16 | FP32 | BF16 |

## Using with Flax

```python
import flax.linen as nn
from zenith.jax import apply_mixed_precision

class TransformerBlock(nn.Module):
    features: int
    
    @nn.compact
    def __call__(self, x):
        # Apply mixed precision to attention
        attn = nn.MultiHeadDotProductAttention(num_heads=8)
        x = apply_mixed_precision(attn, dtype=jnp.float16)(x)
        return x
```

## Performance Tips

1. Use FP16 on NVIDIA GPUs with Tensor Cores
2. Keep loss computation in FP32 for numerical stability
3. Use gradient scaling for FP16 training to prevent underflow

## Expected Benefits

Mixed precision generally provides:
- **Memory reduction:** ~50% (FP16 uses half the memory of FP32)
- **Throughput increase:** Varies by hardware and model

> **Note:** Actual speedups depend on your specific hardware, model architecture, and batch size. The benefits are most noticeable on GPUs with Tensor Cores (NVIDIA Volta, Turing, Ampere, etc.). TPU support in Zenith is currently experimental.

## Running the Benchmark

To measure mixed precision performance on your hardware:

```bash
python benchmarks/jax_benchmarks.py --precision
```
