Result_Notebook/Result_notebook_zenith_jax_phase2_validation.md, before:

Hasil dari notebook ini adalah validasi untukzenith jax phase 2.

https://colab.research.google.com/github/vibeswithkk/ZENITH/blob/main/notebooks/zenith_jax_phase2_validation.ipynb 


# Zenith JAX Phase 2 Validation

**XLA Backend + ONNX Export Testing**

This notebook validates Phase 2 components:
1. XLA Backend - compilation, execution, caching
2. HLO Lowering - GraphIR to HLO conversion
3. ONNX Export - JAX function export with validation  


# Install Zenith from latest commit
!pip uninstall pyzenith -y 2>/dev/null
!pip cache purge 2>/dev/null
!pip install --force-reinstall --no-cache-dir git+https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH.git -q

# Install ONNX dependencies
!pip install onnx onnxruntime -q

import sys
for mod in list(sys.modules.keys()):
    if 'zenith' in mod:
        del sys.modules[mod]

import zenith
print(f'Zenith: {zenith.__version__}')

import jax
import jax.numpy as jnp
print(f'JAX: {jax.__version__}')
print(f'Devices: {jax.devices()}') 

---
Output : 
Found existing installation: pyzenith 0.2.10
Uninstalling pyzenith-0.2.10:
  Successfully uninstalled pyzenith-0.2.10
Files removed: 12
  Installing build dependencies ... done
  Getting requirements to build wheel ... done
  Preparing metadata (pyproject.toml) ... done
   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 16.4/16.4 MB 332.3 MB/s eta 0:00:00
  Building wheel for pyzenith (pyproject.toml) ... done

Zenith: 0.2.10
JAX: 0.7.2
Devices: [CudaDevice(id=0)]


==============================================================================================
# TEST 1: XLA Backend Initialization
print('='*60)
print('TEST 1: XLA Backend Initialization')
print('='*60)

from zenith.backends.xla_backend import (
    XLABackend,
    XLACompileConfig,
    XLACompilationResult,
)

backend = XLABackend(device='auto')
print(f'Backend name: {backend.get_name()}')
print(f'Device: {backend.get_device()}')
print(f'Available: {backend.is_available()}')

props = backend.get_device_properties()
print(f'Device properties: {props.name}')

print('\n[PASS] TEST 1') 

--- 
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 1: XLA Backend Initialization
============================================================
Backend name: xla
Device: gpu
Available: True
Device properties: XLA GPU Device

[PASS] TEST 1

==============================================================================================

# TEST 2: XLA Compilation
print('='*60)
print('TEST 2: XLA Compilation')
print('='*60)

def mlp_forward(x, w1, w2):
    h = jnp.dot(x, w1)
    h = jax.nn.relu(h)
    return jnp.dot(h, w2)

backend = XLABackend(device='auto')
compiled = backend.compile(mlp_forward)

key = jax.random.PRNGKey(42)
x = jax.random.normal(key, (8, 16))
w1 = jax.random.normal(key, (16, 32))
w2 = jax.random.normal(key, (32, 8))

result = compiled(x, w1, w2)
print(f'Output shape: {result.shape}')
print(f'All finite: {jnp.all(jnp.isfinite(result))}')

# Verify numerical correctness using JAX (NOT numpy.testing)
reference = mlp_forward(x, w1, w2)
max_diff = float(jnp.max(jnp.abs(result - reference)))
print(f'Max absolute difference: {max_diff}')
assert max_diff < 1e-5, f'Numerical mismatch: {max_diff}'
print('Numerical correctness: VERIFIED')

print('\n[PASS] TEST 2') 

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 2: XLA Compilation
============================================================
Output shape: (8, 8)
All finite: True
Max absolute difference: 0.0
Numerical correctness: VERIFIED

[PASS] TEST 2

==============================================================================================

# TEST 3: XLA Caching
print('='*60)
print('TEST 3: XLA Caching')
print('='*60)

backend = XLABackend(device='auto')
backend.clear_cache()
backend.reset_stats()

# First compilation
result1 = backend.compile_with_cache(mlp_forward, (x, w1, w2))
print(f'First compile: {result1.compiled_fn is not None}')

# Second (from cache)
result2 = backend.compile_with_cache(mlp_forward, (x, w1, w2))

stats = backend.stats
print(f'Cache hits: {stats.cache_hits}')
print(f'Cache misses: {stats.cache_misses}')

assert stats.cache_hits >= 1, 'Should have cache hit'

print('\n[PASS] TEST 3') 

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 3: XLA Caching
============================================================
First compile: True
Cache hits: 1
Cache misses: 1

[PASS] TEST 3

==============================================================================================

# TEST 4: HLO Lowering
print('='*60)
print('TEST 4: HLO Lowering')
print('='*60)

from zenith.core.hlo_lowering import (
    HLOModule,
    HLOShape,
    HLOOperation,
    HLOOpcode,
    JAXFunctionToHLOConverter,
)

# Test HLO data structures
shape = HLOShape((8, 16), 'f32')
print(f'Shape: {shape}')

module = HLOModule(name='test', entry_computation='main')
module.add_parameter('input', shape)
module.add_operation(HLOOperation(
    opcode=HLOOpcode.ADD,
    inputs=['input', 'input'],
    output='doubled',
    shape=shape,
))
module.set_outputs(['doubled'])

hlo_text = module.to_text()
print('HLO Module:')
print(hlo_text)

# Lower JAX function to HLO
converter = JAXFunctionToHLOConverter()
real_hlo = converter.lower_to_hlo(mlp_forward, [x, w1, w2])
print(f'\nReal HLO length: {len(real_hlo)} chars')
assert 'module' in real_hlo.lower() or 'HloModule' in real_hlo

print('\n[PASS] TEST 4')

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 4: HLO Lowering
============================================================
Shape: f32[8x16]
HLO Module:
HloModule test

ENTRY main {
  %input = parameter() : f32[8x16]
  %doubled = add(input, input) : f32[8x16]
  ROOT tuple = tuple(%doubled)
}

Real HLO length: 999 chars

[PASS] TEST 4

==============================================================================================
# TEST 5: ONNX Export
print('='*60)
print('TEST 5: ONNX Export')
print('='*60)

from zenith.jax.onnx_export import (
    JAXONNXExporter,
    ONNXExportConfig,
    export_to_onnx,
)
import tempfile
import os

# Check if jax2onnx is available
jax2onnx_available = False
try:
    import jax2onnx
    jax2onnx_available = True
    print('jax2onnx: AVAILABLE')
except ImportError:
    print('jax2onnx: NOT INSTALLED (using StableHLO fallback)')

# Simple function for export
def add_mul(a, b):
    return (a + b) * 2.0

a = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(0), (4, 4))
b = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(1), (4, 4))

# Only check numerics if jax2onnx is available (StableHLO fallback is a placeholder)
config = ONNXExportConfig(
    opset_version=17,
    validate=True,
    check_numerics=False,  # Disable - StableHLO fallback doesn't produce accurate conversions
)
exporter = JAXONNXExporter(config=config)

with tempfile.TemporaryDirectory() as tmpdir:
    path = os.path.join(tmpdir, 'model.onnx')
    result = exporter.export(add_mul, (a, b), output_path=path)
    
    print(f'Export result: {result is not None}')
    print(f'Input names: {result.input_names}')
    print(f'Output names: {result.output_names}')
    print(f'Validation passed: {result.validation_passed}')
    
    if jax2onnx_available and result.model is not None and os.path.exists(path):
        # Validate with ONNX Runtime only if jax2onnx was used
        import onnxruntime as ort
        import numpy as np
        sess = ort.InferenceSession(path)
        input_names = [inp.name for inp in sess.get_inputs()]
        ort_result = sess.run(None, {
            input_names[0]: np.array(a),
            input_names[1]: np.array(b),
        })[0]
        
        jax_result = add_mul(a, b)
        max_diff = float(jnp.max(jnp.abs(jnp.array(ort_result) - jax_result)))
        print(f'ONNX vs JAX max diff: {max_diff}')
        if max_diff < 1e-4:
            print('ONNX numerical accuracy: VERIFIED')
        else:
            print('Warning: Numerical difference detected (may be expected)')
    else:
        print('')
        print('Note: Full ONNX export requires jax2onnx library.')
        print('Current StableHLO fallback creates placeholder model only.')
        print('This is expected - install jax2onnx for full conversion:')
        print('  pip install jax2onnx')

print('\n[PASS] TEST 5') 

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 5: ONNX Export
============================================================
jax2onnx: NOT INSTALLED (using StableHLO fallback)
WARNING:zenith.jax.onnx_export:jax2onnx failed: jax2onnx is required for direct JAX->ONNX export. Install with: pip install jax2onnx. Trying StableHLO path...
WARNING:zenith.jax.onnx_export:StableHLO->ONNX conversion is limited. Consider using jax2onnx for full support.
Export result: True
Input names: ['input_0', 'input_1']
Output names: ['output_0']
Validation passed: True

Note: Full ONNX export requires jax2onnx library.
Current StableHLO fallback creates placeholder model only.
This is expected - install jax2onnx for full conversion:
  pip install jax2onnx

[PASS] TEST 5


==============================================================================================

# TEST 6: Performance Benchmark
print('='*60)
print('TEST 6: Performance Benchmark')
print('='*60)

import time

backend = XLABackend(device='auto')

# Larger matrices for benchmarking
SIZE = 512
key = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
x = jax.random.normal(key, (SIZE, SIZE))
w1 = jax.random.normal(key, (SIZE, SIZE*2))
w2 = jax.random.normal(key, (SIZE*2, SIZE))

# Compile
compiled = backend.compile(mlp_forward)

# Warmup
for _ in range(3):
    compiled(x, w1, w2).block_until_ready()

# Benchmark
N = 20
start = time.time()
for _ in range(N):
    compiled(x, w1, w2).block_until_ready()
elapsed = (time.time() - start) / N * 1000

print(f'Matrix size: {SIZE}x{SIZE}')
print(f'Avg execution time: {elapsed:.2f} ms')

print('\n[PASS] TEST 6')

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 6: Performance Benchmark
============================================================
Matrix size: 512x512
Avg execution time: 1.29 ms

[PASS] TEST 6

==============================================================================================

print('='*70)
print('ALL PHASE 2 TESTS PASSED!')
print('XLA Backend + ONNX Export validated successfully.')
print('='*70) 

---
Output : 
======================================================================
ALL PHASE 2 TESTS PASSED!
XLA Backend + ONNX Export validated successfully.
======================================================================

Commit message:

Add GPU chaos test results from Colab
Result_Notebook/Result_gpu_chaos_test.md:
- Tesla T4 (15GB) test results
- Test 1: GPU Memory Info - PASS
- Test 2: Allocation/Release - PASS
- Test 3: OOM Triggering - PASS (peak 10GB)
- Test 4: Recovery After OOM - PASS

ALL GPU CHAOS TESTS PASSED on real CUDA hardware

Also: Updated notebook result headers to English

Result_Notebook/Result_notebook_zenith_jax_phase2_validation.md, after:

The result of this notebook is validation for zenith jax phase 2.

https://colab.research.google.com/github/vibeswithkk/ZENITH/blob/main/notebooks/zenith_jax_phase2_validation.ipynb 


# Zenith JAX Phase 2 Validation

**XLA Backend + ONNX Export Testing**

This notebook validates Phase 2 components:
1. XLA Backend - compilation, execution, caching
2. HLO Lowering - GraphIR to HLO conversion
3. ONNX Export - JAX function export with validation  


# Install Zenith from latest commit
!pip uninstall pyzenith -y 2>/dev/null
!pip cache purge 2>/dev/null
!pip install --force-reinstall --no-cache-dir git+https://github.com/vibeswithkk/ZENITH.git -q

# Install ONNX dependencies
!pip install onnx onnxruntime -q

import sys
for mod in list(sys.modules.keys()):
    if 'zenith' in mod:
        del sys.modules[mod]

import zenith
print(f'Zenith: {zenith.__version__}')

import jax
import jax.numpy as jnp
print(f'JAX: {jax.__version__}')
print(f'Devices: {jax.devices()}') 

---
Output : 
Found existing installation: pyzenith 0.2.10
Uninstalling pyzenith-0.2.10:
  Successfully uninstalled pyzenith-0.2.10
Files removed: 12
  Installing build dependencies ... done
  Getting requirements to build wheel ... done
  Preparing metadata (pyproject.toml) ... done
   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 16.4/16.4 MB 332.3 MB/s eta 0:00:00
  Building wheel for pyzenith (pyproject.toml) ... done

Zenith: 0.2.10
JAX: 0.7.2
Devices: [CudaDevice(id=0)]


==============================================================================================
# TEST 1: XLA Backend Initialization
print('='*60)
print('TEST 1: XLA Backend Initialization')
print('='*60)

from zenith.backends.xla_backend import (
    XLABackend,
    XLACompileConfig,
    XLACompilationResult,
)

backend = XLABackend(device='auto')
print(f'Backend name: {backend.get_name()}')
print(f'Device: {backend.get_device()}')
print(f'Available: {backend.is_available()}')

props = backend.get_device_properties()
print(f'Device properties: {props.name}')

print('\n[PASS] TEST 1') 

--- 
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 1: XLA Backend Initialization
============================================================
Backend name: xla
Device: gpu
Available: True
Device properties: XLA GPU Device

[PASS] TEST 1

==============================================================================================

# TEST 2: XLA Compilation
print('='*60)
print('TEST 2: XLA Compilation')
print('='*60)

def mlp_forward(x, w1, w2):
    h = jnp.dot(x, w1)
    h = jax.nn.relu(h)
    return jnp.dot(h, w2)

backend = XLABackend(device='auto')
compiled = backend.compile(mlp_forward)

key = jax.random.PRNGKey(42)
x = jax.random.normal(key, (8, 16))
w1 = jax.random.normal(key, (16, 32))
w2 = jax.random.normal(key, (32, 8))

result = compiled(x, w1, w2)
print(f'Output shape: {result.shape}')
print(f'All finite: {jnp.all(jnp.isfinite(result))}')

# Verify numerical correctness using JAX (NOT numpy.testing)
reference = mlp_forward(x, w1, w2)
max_diff = float(jnp.max(jnp.abs(result - reference)))
print(f'Max absolute difference: {max_diff}')
assert max_diff < 1e-5, f'Numerical mismatch: {max_diff}'
print('Numerical correctness: VERIFIED')

print('\n[PASS] TEST 2') 

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 2: XLA Compilation
============================================================
Output shape: (8, 8)
All finite: True
Max absolute difference: 0.0
Numerical correctness: VERIFIED

[PASS] TEST 2

==============================================================================================

# TEST 3: XLA Caching
print('='*60)
print('TEST 3: XLA Caching')
print('='*60)

backend = XLABackend(device='auto')
backend.clear_cache()
backend.reset_stats()

# First compilation
result1 = backend.compile_with_cache(mlp_forward, (x, w1, w2))
print(f'First compile: {result1.compiled_fn is not None}')

# Second (from cache)
result2 = backend.compile_with_cache(mlp_forward, (x, w1, w2))

stats = backend.stats
print(f'Cache hits: {stats.cache_hits}')
print(f'Cache misses: {stats.cache_misses}')

assert stats.cache_hits >= 1, 'Should have cache hit'

print('\n[PASS] TEST 3') 

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 3: XLA Caching
============================================================
First compile: True
Cache hits: 1
Cache misses: 1

[PASS] TEST 3

==============================================================================================

# TEST 4: HLO Lowering
print('='*60)
print('TEST 4: HLO Lowering')
print('='*60)

from zenith.core.hlo_lowering import (
    HLOModule,
    HLOShape,
    HLOOperation,
    HLOOpcode,
    JAXFunctionToHLOConverter,
)

# Test HLO data structures
shape = HLOShape((8, 16), 'f32')
print(f'Shape: {shape}')

module = HLOModule(name='test', entry_computation='main')
module.add_parameter('input', shape)
module.add_operation(HLOOperation(
    opcode=HLOOpcode.ADD,
    inputs=['input', 'input'],
    output='doubled',
    shape=shape,
))
module.set_outputs(['doubled'])

hlo_text = module.to_text()
print('HLO Module:')
print(hlo_text)

# Lower JAX function to HLO
converter = JAXFunctionToHLOConverter()
real_hlo = converter.lower_to_hlo(mlp_forward, [x, w1, w2])
print(f'\nReal HLO length: {len(real_hlo)} chars')
assert 'module' in real_hlo.lower() or 'HloModule' in real_hlo

print('\n[PASS] TEST 4')

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 4: HLO Lowering
============================================================
Shape: f32[8x16]
HLO Module:
HloModule test

ENTRY main {
  %input = parameter() : f32[8x16]
  %doubled = add(input, input) : f32[8x16]
  ROOT tuple = tuple(%doubled)
}

Real HLO length: 999 chars

[PASS] TEST 4

==============================================================================================
# TEST 5: ONNX Export
print('='*60)
print('TEST 5: ONNX Export')
print('='*60)

from zenith.jax.onnx_export import (
    JAXONNXExporter,
    ONNXExportConfig,
    export_to_onnx,
)
import tempfile
import os

# Check if jax2onnx is available
jax2onnx_available = False
try:
    import jax2onnx
    jax2onnx_available = True
    print('jax2onnx: AVAILABLE')
except ImportError:
    print('jax2onnx: NOT INSTALLED (using StableHLO fallback)')

# Simple function for export
def add_mul(a, b):
    return (a + b) * 2.0

a = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(0), (4, 4))
b = jax.random.normal(jax.random.PRNGKey(1), (4, 4))

# Only check numerics if jax2onnx is available (StableHLO fallback is a placeholder)
config = ONNXExportConfig(
    opset_version=17,
    validate=True,
    check_numerics=False,  # Disable - StableHLO fallback doesn't produce accurate conversions
)
exporter = JAXONNXExporter(config=config)

with tempfile.TemporaryDirectory() as tmpdir:
    path = os.path.join(tmpdir, 'model.onnx')
    result = exporter.export(add_mul, (a, b), output_path=path)
    
    print(f'Export result: {result is not None}')
    print(f'Input names: {result.input_names}')
    print(f'Output names: {result.output_names}')
    print(f'Validation passed: {result.validation_passed}')
    
    if jax2onnx_available and result.model is not None and os.path.exists(path):
        # Validate with ONNX Runtime only if jax2onnx was used
        import onnxruntime as ort
        import numpy as np
        sess = ort.InferenceSession(path)
        input_names = [inp.name for inp in sess.get_inputs()]
        ort_result = sess.run(None, {
            input_names[0]: np.array(a),
            input_names[1]: np.array(b),
        })[0]
        
        jax_result = add_mul(a, b)
        max_diff = float(jnp.max(jnp.abs(jnp.array(ort_result) - jax_result)))
        print(f'ONNX vs JAX max diff: {max_diff}')
        if max_diff < 1e-4:
            print('ONNX numerical accuracy: VERIFIED')
        else:
            print('Warning: Numerical difference detected (may be expected)')
    else:
        print('')
        print('Note: Full ONNX export requires jax2onnx library.')
        print('Current StableHLO fallback creates placeholder model only.')
        print('This is expected - install jax2onnx for full conversion:')
        print('  pip install jax2onnx')

print('\n[PASS] TEST 5') 

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 5: ONNX Export
============================================================
jax2onnx: NOT INSTALLED (using StableHLO fallback)
WARNING:zenith.jax.onnx_export:jax2onnx failed: jax2onnx is required for direct JAX->ONNX export. Install with: pip install jax2onnx. Trying StableHLO path...
WARNING:zenith.jax.onnx_export:StableHLO->ONNX conversion is limited. Consider using jax2onnx for full support.
Export result: True
Input names: ['input_0', 'input_1']
Output names: ['output_0']
Validation passed: True

Note: Full ONNX export requires jax2onnx library.
Current StableHLO fallback creates placeholder model only.
This is expected - install jax2onnx for full conversion:
  pip install jax2onnx

[PASS] TEST 5


==============================================================================================

# TEST 6: Performance Benchmark
print('='*60)
print('TEST 6: Performance Benchmark')
print('='*60)

import time

backend = XLABackend(device='auto')

# Larger matrices for benchmarking
SIZE = 512
key = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
x = jax.random.normal(key, (SIZE, SIZE))
w1 = jax.random.normal(key, (SIZE, SIZE*2))
w2 = jax.random.normal(key, (SIZE*2, SIZE))

# Compile
compiled = backend.compile(mlp_forward)

# Warmup
for _ in range(3):
    compiled(x, w1, w2).block_until_ready()

# Benchmark
N = 20
start = time.time()
for _ in range(N):
    compiled(x, w1, w2).block_until_ready()
elapsed = (time.time() - start) / N * 1000

print(f'Matrix size: {SIZE}x{SIZE}')
print(f'Avg execution time: {elapsed:.2f} ms')

print('\n[PASS] TEST 6')

---
Output : 
============================================================
TEST 6: Performance Benchmark
============================================================
Matrix size: 512x512
Avg execution time: 1.29 ms

[PASS] TEST 6

==============================================================================================

print('='*70)
print('ALL PHASE 2 TESTS PASSED!')
print('XLA Backend + ONNX Export validated successfully.')
print('='*70) 

---
Output : 
======================================================================
ALL PHASE 2 TESTS PASSED!
XLA Backend + ONNX Export validated successfully.
======================================================================
